# Google Developer Student Club Website

## Senior Project by Nora Bakken, Sianna Mucino, and Howard Lee

### This README file serves as an overview of our senior project, to give the reader a perspective of where certain functions were implemented, and why we chose some of the solutions and tech stacks we ended up using. For any questions, please do not hesitate to reach out to [Nora](n_bakken@u.pacific.edu)

### Why REACT?

We wanted to create a responsive and visually pleasing web application that would be an attractive asset to our portfolios. Employers often identify REACT as a skill they would like to see in potential hires, making it a good option for us as soon-to-be graduates.

### Why Amazon Web Services?

We originally wanted to host our website on Pacific's web server. Unfortunately, because our website was created with REACT and was therefore a Javascript application, it was not easily hostable from a File Transfer Protocol system. We looked into simple and cost effective solutions for hosting a REACT app, and AWS was highly regarded as a simple solution which even supported continuous integration.

### Why Firebase?

Firebase, Google's backend/database solution, was able to provide everything we needed for our project including large and small data storage, user authentication, and a realtime database. It also interacted well with AWS.

# Our Code

### This section will provide an overview of the important files in our codebase. A short description will be provided regarding each file. For more information, comments will be provided throughout relevant files. We will not provide comments or descriptions of default files for dependencies, or those that came with the REACT project--we will only comment on those that we wrote

## Public

### Laptop Directory

This directory provides all of the necessary resources to display the 3D model of a laptop with our logo on our homepage.

### images Directory

This directory houses all of the images we use on our website.

### index.html

This file works similarly to any other index file for a webpage; it is the first file that the browser loads when a request to view the website is made. While this file was mostly generated by REACT upon creating the project, we do use it to load our homepage and to ensure that our custom font is loaded across all pages.

## src

### Components / Pages

#### Backend

This directory is mainly to assist in the functionality of the admin page, which uploads potentially large files to our Firebase database.

#### Auth

This directory houses the files which interact with the user authentication component in Firebase.

##### Login.jsx

This file serves to provide the frontend code for the login page, and provides the logic to make a call to Firebase to verify the email and password combination entered by the user.

##### Register.jsx

This file is very similar to Login.jsx, but instead provides the logic to make a call to Firebase to first ensure that a user does not exist with the inputted email address, and then securely create a new account with the credentials provided.

#### css

This directory houses all of the `.css` files used with our web application. We will not go into great detail regarding this, as the code is quite readable and only delivers the styling for the website and no logic.

#### About.jsx

This file provides a static page with information about the core club members of GDSC.

#### Admin.jsx

This file provides both the frontend and backend logic for the existence of the Admin page, which is the page for core members to be able to upload club materials and view information about users. This page is only intended to be seen by the core members of GDSC and will not be accessible to regular users of the website.

#### ContactUs.jsx

This file provides a form which users can fill out and send an email to a core member of GDSC. This would be good for someone who does not have a Discord account or does not want to commit to joining a server. This file includes the use of the EmailJS API to send emails to <gdsc.uop@gmail.com>.

#### Dropdown.jsx

This file includes the logic to support a dynamic dropdown menu to extend the Navbar, in the event that future developers would like to create more pages for the website.

#### EventData.jsx and EventPage.jsx

These files exist to provide the user with a dynamic list of upcoming GDSC events. It will reflect events added via the admin page, and sort them by tag.

#### Navbar.jsx and Footer.jsx

These files support the running navbar and footer that are shown across all pages of the website. We made them each their own file so that any `.jsx` file can utilize this as a simple line: `<Navbar></Navbar>` or `<Footer></Footer>`.

#### GPoints.jsx

This file dynamically creates a leaderboard of the GPoints of all users of the website. his is so that any club member can view where they stand in the friendly annual GPoints competition that GDSC holds. At the end of the semester, we hold a raffle (each GPoint is worth one raffle ticket) so members may want to view their points at any given time.

#### Home.jsx

This file includes everything we render on the homepage--from links to other pages of the website to the 3D Laptop model.

#### Homepage.jsx

This helper file renders the navbar and footer around the Home element.

#### Laptop_model.jsx

This file renders the 3D Laptop model as a `jsx` element, so that it can be referenced in other files.

#### Logo.gltf

This helper file assists with the rendering of the 3D Laptop model.

#### MenuItems.jsx

This file provides the logic for the drop-down menu at the end of the Navbar.

#### Resources.jsx

This file includes the logic for our resources page, including an integrated Google calendar and `.pdfs` of some of our recent meeting presentations.

### App.js

This file, which is required for all REACT apps, is the first `.jsx` code that will be run for our application. It primarily includes the router code to allow for the navigation between pages within our website, and many necessary inclusions.

### firebase.js

This file facilitates the easy communication between our app and our firebase user authentication and database.

## Conclusion

The Google Developer Student Club (GDSC) Website project, contributed by Nora Bakken, Sianna Mucino, and Howard Lee, is a remarkable testament to modern web development techniques and strategic technology integration. We adept use of React for front-end development, Amazon Web Services (AWS) for hosting, and Firebase for back-end solutions reflects a thoughtful selection of tools that are not only relevant in today’s tech industry but also highly effective for the project's requirements.

In our thought, this project is more than just a showcase of technical skills; it's a narrative of problem-solving, innovation, and the effective application of technology. our team’s journey through this project, marked by overcoming significant challenges and our astute use of modern tech, is not just commendable but also inspiring. It’s a vivid reminder of the power of teamwork, technical expertise, and strategic planning in the ever-evolving domain of web development. The GDSC website, in my view, is not just a project but a beacon for future developers, highlighting the essence of skill, creativity, and adaptability in technology.

A significant diffculity of this project is its sophisticated handling of a challenging aspect - rendering a 3D laptop model on AWS. We are still figure out how we gonna successful achieve this goal by learning different technical documentation. 
